# ἀγάπη, ης, ἡ.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG LN FFM BN LSJM MM   -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G00260.

* Alternate spellings:



* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Noun](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/noun.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 115.

* All Scriptures cited: No.

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX for [אַהֲבָה](//en-uhl/H0160), which is also rendered by [ἀγάπησις]() and [φιλία]();

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses:

* Synonyms for all senses: 

 [[φιλία]()](). [ἀ.](), signifying properly (v.s. [[ἀγαπάω]()]()) love which chooses its object, is taken over from LXX, where its connotation is more general, into NT, and there used exclusively to express that spiritual bond of love between God and man and between man and man, in Christ, which is characteristic of Christianity. It is thus distinct from φιλία, friendship ([Ja 4:4](Jas 4:4) only), [στοργή](), natural affection (in NT only in compounds, v.s. [ἄστοργος]()) and [ἔρως](), sexual love, which is not used in NT, its place being taken by [ἐπιθυμία](). (Cf. ἀγαπάω; and v. Abbott, Essays, 70f.; DB, vol. i., 555; Cremer, 13, 593; MM, VGT, s.v.).

## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

love, a feeling of goodwill toward, or cherishing a person in a manner that exceeds mere fondness

#### Glosses: 

love

#### Explanation: 

Secular Greek used ἀγάπη rarely and with little distinction from [φιλία](../G53730/01.md) and στοργή (see the related word φιλόστοργος in the NT)](../G53870/01.md).  (A fourth Greek word for love -- ἔρως, or sexual love -- is not used in NT). In the LXX, ἀγάπη is seldom used, but refers primarily to sexual love in Song of Songs or to a more general sense of love (as contrasted to hate) in Ecclesiastes. Because the term ἀγάπη had so few previous connotations, the NT writers adopted it and infused it to convey the kind of intense, committed, self-sacrificial love that characterizes God's motivations and actions.  ἀγάπη can apply to love between God and man and to love among men. It was such love that motivated God to send His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to earth to redeem sinful men by His death and resurrection

#### Citations: 

~Of God's love demonstrated toward men: [John 15:9](jn 15:9), [10](jn 15:10) {1st instance}, [Rom 5:5](rom 5:5), [8](rom 5:8), [8:35](rom 8:35), [2Cor 5:14](2co 5:14), [13:14](2co 13:14), [Eph 1:4](eph 1:4), [2:4](eph 2:4), [1John 3:1](1jn 3:1),

~Of human love expressed toward God:  [1Thess 1:2](1th 1:2), [Heb 6:10](heb 6:10), [1John 2:15](1jn 2:15), [Jude 1:21](jud 1:21), [Rev 2:4](rev 2:4),

~Of the love between the Father and the Son: [John 15:10](jhn 15:10) {2nd instance}, [17:26](jhn 17:26), [Col 1:13](col 1:13),

~Of human love toward other men, especially the love between beleivers: [John 13:35](jhn 13:35), [1Cor 4:21](1co 4:21), [8:1](1co 8:1), [13:1](1co 13:1), [2Cor 2:4](2co 2:4),[2Pet 1:7](2pe 1:7), 

### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

love, an attribute of God that is to be modeled by those who follow Him

#### Glosses: 

love

#### Explanation: 

Because love is a divine attribute that God extends toward men, God commands His people to demonstrate it to Him and to others 

#### Citations: 

[Luke 11:42](luk 11:42), [John 5:42](jn 5:42), [Rom 12:9](rom 12:9), [13:10](rom 13:10) {2 instances}, [1Cor 8:1](1co 8:1), [2Cor 13:11](2co 13:11), [Gal 5:22](gal 5:22), [Eph 3:17](eph 3:17), [Phil 1:9](php 1:9), [Col 3:14](col 3:14), [1Thess 5:8](1th 5:8), [1Tim 1:5](1ti 1:5), [2Tim 1:7](2ti 1:7), [1John 2:5](1jn 2:5), [3:17](1jn 3:17), [4:7-10](1jn 4:7-10),

### Sense  3.0: 

#### Definition: 

a love feast, a common meal that was routinely shared in by the early believers

#### Glosses: 

a love feast

#### Explanation: 

[1Cor 14:18-22](1co 14:18-22) may also contain an allusion to this practice of the earliest church

#### Citations: 

[Jude 1:12](jud 1:12).