# ἁρπαγμός οῦ, ὁ

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsEdits -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits:   -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G07250

* Alternate spellings:

† , 

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 


* Instances in Scripture: 1

* All Scriptures cited: Yes

## Etymology: 

[ἁρπάζω]());

* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 


* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

#### Glosses: 

the act of seizing; 

#### Explanation: 

robbery; 

#### Citations: 

prop., acc., to the rule of its formation (Bl., § 27, 2), actively, the act of seizing, robbery (Plut., de Puer. Educ., p. 12A), [Phl 2:6](Php 2:6), AV (Waterland, Works, II, 108; Cremer, 649 f.; Meyer, in l.; cf. also JThS, July, 1909, April, 1911; MM, s.v.).

### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

#### Glosses: 

a thing seized; 

#### Explanation: 

a prize; 

#### Citations: 

Passively = [[ἅρπαγμα]()]() ([Ez 22:25](Ezk 22:25), of a lion's prey, [טֶרֶף](//en-uhl/H2964)), a thing seized, hence, a prize: [[Phl 2:6](Php 2:6)](Php 2:6), RV (Lft., Ellic., ICC, in l.; Donaldson, NCrat., 450 ff.; and esp. Gifford, The Incarnation, 59-71, and reff. in DB, ii, 835 B). The lexical data favour the active meaning, but as they also admit the possibility of the alternative, most modern expositors have accepted the latter as seeming to suit the logic of the passage better. The lexical difficulty, however, remains (MM, s.v., esp. the last ref.). As to the usage of St. Paul, he seems inclined to adopt the [-μα]() form where it is appropriate (e.g. [Ro 11:9](Rom 11:9), where cf. LXX; [I Co 13:9](1Co 13:9), [II Co 1:9](2Co 1:9)), and there is certainly a presumption in favour of the active meaning here from the fact that he does not use the LXX ἅρπαγμα. Suggestions looking to a fresh exegesis are given in JThS, July, 1909, April, 1911.†
