# λειτουργέω, ῶ.

<!-- Status: S3=Needs2ndReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G30080.

* Alternate spellings:



* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 3.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes.

## Etymology: 

[λειτουργός](../G30110/01.md): a minister, a servant.  

* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

([Ex 29:30](Exo 29:30), [Nu 16:9](Num 16:9), [De 10:12](Deu 10:12), [Si 4:14](Sir.4.14), [I Mac 10:42](1Macc.10.42), elsewhere, (compare [Si 10:25](Sir.10.25))

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses:

* Synonyms for all senses: 

[λατρεύω](../G30000/01.md): to serve for hire.  In LXX (as sometimes in classical Greek), always of service to the deity on the part of both priests and people ([Ex 4:3](Exo 4:3), [De 10:12](Deu 10:12), and similarly used in the New Testament).  The word λειτουργέω is used of service in an office or ministry.  In LXX, it is always used of priests and Levites, and in New Testament, with its cognates, it is used of services rendered either to God or man by apostles, prophets, teachers, and other officers of the church.


## Senses: 



### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

to serve or perform a service

#### Glosses: 

to serve, to minister, perform religious duties, to do a service

#### Explanation: 

This word is only used in the New Testament for service to God or other Christians. Generally this word means to serve or do service, referring to service in an office or in ministry.  It is used of the official service of priests and Levites (as in Hebrews 10:11).  It is used of Christians, to worship God, to serve, to minister (compare Acts 13:2)  

#### Citations: 

; [πᾶς](../G39560/01.md) [μὲν](../G33030/01.md) [ἱερεὺς](../G24090/01.md) [ἕστηκεν](../G24760/01.md) [καθ’](../G25960/01.md) [ἡμέραν](../G22500/01.md) λειτουργῶν, 
; "indeed every priest stands day after day and performs his service to God," (ULT):[Heb 10:11](heb 10:11),

; [ἐν](../G17220/01.md) [τοῖς](../G35880/01.md) [σαρκικοῖς](../G45590/01.md) λειτουργῆσαι [αὐτοῖς](../G08460/01.md), 
; "to serve them in material things," (ULT):[Rom 15:27](rom 15:27), 

; λειτουργούντων [δὲ](../G11610/01.md) [αὐτῶν](../G08460/01.md) [τῷ](../G35880/01.md) [Κυρίῳ](../G29620/01.md), 
; "While they were worshiping the Lord," (ULT): [Acts 13:2](act 13:2).
