# μάχαιρα, ης.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G31620.

* Alternate spellings:

* Principle Parts: 

* Part of speech: 

[Noun](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/noun.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 29.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes.

## Etymology: 

* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

(Att. [-ας](); v. WH, App., 156a; Bl., § 7, 1), [ἡ](),

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 

* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 

## Senses: 

### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

a short sword or dagger

#### Glosses: 

dagger, short sword

#### Explanation: 

dagger, short sword

#### Citations: 

a short sword or dagger 
                    (as disting. from [ῥομφαία](), a large broad sword and [ξίφος](), a straight sword for thrusting):
 [Matt 26:[47](mrk [14](rev 13:14):47)](Mat 26:47) ff., [Mark 14:43](mrk 14:43), 47, [48](mrk 14:48), [Luke 22:36](luk 22:36) ff., Jo 18:[10](gen 22:10), [11](jhn 18:11) [Acts 16:27](act 16:27), [Heb 11:37](heb 11:37), [Rev 6:4](rev 6:4) [13:10](rev 13:10), 14; [στόμα μαχαίρης]() (as in Heb. [פִּה](//en-uhl/H6310) [חֶרֶב](//en-uhl/H2719), [Ge 34:26](gen 34:26), al.), 
 Matthew 26:47
47 While he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
Mark 14:43
43 And immediately, while he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
Mark 14:48
48 And Jesus said to them, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me?
Luke 22:36
36 He said to them, “But now let the one who has a moneybag take it, and likewise a knapsack. And let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one.
Luke 22:38
38 And they said, “Look, Lord, here are two swords.” And he said to them, “It is enough.”
John 18:11
11 So Jesus said to Peter, “Put your sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?”
Acts 16:27
27 When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
Hebrews 11:37
37 They were stoned, they were sawn in two, they were killed with the sword. They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated—
Revelation 6:4
4 And out came another horse, bright red. Its rider was permitted to take peace from the earth, so that people should slay one another, and he was given a great sword.
Revelation 13:10
10 If anyone is to be taken captive,
to captivity he goes;
if anyone is to be slain with the sword,
with the sword must he be slain.
Here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints.
Revelation 13:14
14 and by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of the beast it deceives those who dwell on earth, telling them to make an image for the beast that was wounded by the sword and yet lived.

### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

Figuratively,  by the edge of a sword, the power of authorities to punish evildoers, war

#### Glosses: 

edge of the sword, power, war

#### Explanation: 

#### Citations: 

 the edge of the sword: [Luke 21:24](luk 21:24), [Heb 11:34](heb 11:34); [μ. δίστομος](), [Heb 4:12](heb 4:12); [ἀναιρεῖν μαχαίρῃ](), [Acts 12:2](act 12:2); [τὴν μ. φορεῖν](), [Rom 13:4](rom 13:4). 
 Luke 21:24
24 They will fall by the edge of the sword and be led captive among all nations, and Jerusalem will be trampled underfoot by the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
Hebrews 11:34
34 quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, put foreign armies to flight.
Hebrews 4:12
12 For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
 Acts 12:2
2 He killed James the brother of John with the sword,
 Romans 13:4
4 for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer.
 
 Metaph., [Matt 10:34](mat 10:34) (opp. to [εἰρήνη]()), [Rom 8:35](rom 8:35); [μ. τοῦ πνεύματος](), [Eph 6:17](eph 6:17).†
Matthew 10:34
34 “Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Romans 8:35
35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
Ephesians 6:17
17 and take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,


