# μεθερμηνεύω.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G31770.

* Alternate spellings:

† ,

* Principle Parts: 

* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 8.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes.

## Etymology: 

* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX: [Si prol. 23](sirp.1.23)*;

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 

* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 

## Senses: 

### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

to given meaning to

#### Glosses: 

to translate, interpret, given meaning to

#### Explanation: 

#### Citations: 

to translate, interpret: [Matt 1:23](mat 1:23), [Mark 5:41](mrk 5:41) [15:22](mrk 15:22), [34](mrk 15:34), [John 1:38](jhn 1:38), [42](jhn 1:42), [Acts 4:36](act 4:36) [13:8](act 13:8) (cf. [ἑρμηνεύω]()).†

Matthew 1:23 " Behold, the virgin will conceive in her womb and give birth to a son, and they will call his name Immanuel which means God with us."" (ULT)

{ESV}
Matthew 1:23
23 “Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son,
and they shall call his name Immanuel”
(which MEANS, God with us).
Mark 5:41
41 Taking her by the hand he said to her, “Talitha cumi,” which MEANS, “Little girl, I say to you, arise.”
Mark 15:22
22 And they brought him to the place called Golgotha (which MEANS Place of a Skull).
Mark 15:34
34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” which MEANS, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”
John 1:38
38 Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them, “What are you seeking?” And they said to him, “Rabbi” (which MEANS Teacher), “where are you staying?”
Acts 4:36
36 Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas (which MEANS son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus,
Acts 13:8
8 But Elymas the magician (for THAT IS THE MEANING of his name) opposed them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith.

