# μεθίστημι.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G31790.

* Alternate spellings:

and (late form, [I Co 13:2](1co 13:2)) [μεθιστάνω](),

* Principle Parts: 

* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 5.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes.

## Etymology: 

* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX for [סור](//en-uhl/H5493) hi., etc.;

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 

* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 

## Senses: 

### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

To move to a different position

#### Glosses: 

to remove, to transfer, to move

#### Explanation: 

#### Citations: 

to change, remove: c. acc. rei, [ὄρη](), [I Co 13:2](1co 13:2) (cf. [Is 54:10](isa 54:10)); c. acc. pers.: seq. [εἰς](), [Col 1:13](col 1:13); seq. [ἐκ](), pass., [Luke 16:4](luk 16:4); of causing death (cf. similar intrans. sense, Eur., Alc., 21, al.), [Acts 13:22](act 13:22). Metaph. (cf. [τ. καρδίαν μ.](), [Jos 14:8](jos 14:8)), c. acc. pers., to pervert: [Acts 19:26](act 19:26).†

1 Corinthians 13:2
2 And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to REMOVE mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
Colossians 1:13
13 He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and TRANSFERRED us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,
Luke 16:4
4 I have decided what to do, so that when I AM REMOVED from management, people may receive me into their houses.’
Acts 13:22
22 And WHEN HE HAD REMOVED him, he raised up David to be their king, of whom he testified and said, I have found in David the son of Jesse a man after my heart, who will do all my will.’
Acts 19:26
26 And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but in almost all of Asia this Paul has persuaded and TURNED AWAY a great many people, saying that gods made with hands are not gods.

G33260  μετά -  with, among, after
G24760  ἵστημι - to make to stand, to stand