# μένω.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G33060.

* Alternate spellings:

* Principle Parts: 

* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 118.

* All Scriptures cited: No.

## Etymology: 

* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

;in LXX for [עמד](//en-uhl/H5975), [קוּם](//en-uhl/H6965).

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 

* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 

## Senses: 

### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

to stay in the same place for a considerable time

#### Glosses: 

to stay, to remain 

#### Explanation: 

#### Citations: 

[a] μένω[a]: ἐκει̂ μένετε ἕωςαν ἐξέλθητε ἐκει̂θεν stay
there until you leave that place MRK.6:10 ἐὰν μὴ οὑ̂τοι
μείνωσιν ἐν τῳ̂ πλοίῳ if these (sailors) dont stay on the
ship ACT.27:31. ἐμμένω[a]: ἐνέμεινεν δὲ διετίαν ὅλην ἐν
ἰδίῳ μισθώματι for two full years he stayed in a place he
rented for himself ACT.28:30. ἐπιμένω[a]: ἐπιμενω̂ δὲ ἐν
Ἐφέσῳ but I will stay (here) in Ephesus 1CO.16:8. καταμένω
οὑ̂ ἠ̂σαν καταμένοντες (the room) where they were staying
ACT.1:13. <LN>

### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

staying in a location waiting for an event to occur

#### Glosses:

to wait for, to await

#### Explanation:


#### Citations: 

[a] μένω[b]: οὑ̂τοι δὲ προελθόντες ἔμενον ἡμα̂ς ἐν
Τρῳάδι these went ahead and waited for us in Troas ACT.20:5.
ἀναμένω ἀναμένειν τὸν υἱὸν αὐτου̂ ἐκ τω̂ν οὐρανω̂ν to
wait for his Son from heaven 1TH.1:10. περιμένω ἀλλὰ
περιμένειν τὴν ἐπαγγελίαν του̂ πατρός but to wait for the
promise from the Father ACT.1:4. προσδέχομαι[c]: ὅς καὶ
αὐτὸς ἠ̂ν προσδεχόμενος τὴν βασιλείαν του̂ θεου̂ he was one
who was waiting for the kingdom of God MRK.15:43. ἐκδέχομαι[a]:
ἐκδεχομένων τὴν του̂ ὕδατος κίνησιν waiting for the
movement of the water JHN.5:3 (apparatus).  <LN>

### Sense  3.0: 

#### Definition: 

continuing to live or exist

#### Glosses:

continue existing

#### Explanation:


#### Citations: 

μένω[c]: εἰ ἐν Σοδόμοις ἐγενήθησαν αἱ δυνάμεις αἱ
γενόμεναι ἐν σοίἔμεινεναν μέχρι τη̂ς σήμερον if the
miracles which were performed in you had been performed in Sodom,
it would still be in existence today MAT.11:23. διαμένω[c]:
αὐτοὶ ἀπολου̂νταισὺ δὲ διαμένεις they will all disappear,
but you will continue to exist HEB.1:11. <LN>

### Sense  4.0: 

#### Definition: 

continuing to perform and activity, continuing in a current state

#### Glosses:

to keep on, to remain in

#### Explanation:


#### Citations: 

μένω[d]: μὴ μένων ἐν τῃ̂ διδαχῃ̂ του̂ Χριστου̂ one not
remaining in the teaching of Christ 2JN.1:9 ὁ ἀγαπω̂ν τὸν
ἀδελφὸν αὐτου̂ ἐν τῳ̂ φωτὶ μένει he who loves his fellow
believer remains in the light 1JN.2:10. διαμένω[b]: αὐτὸς ἠ̂ν
διανεύων αὐτοι̂ςκαὶ διέμενεν κωφός he made signs to them and
remained unable to speak or ... remained dumb LUK.1:22.
ἐπιμένω[b]: ὡς δὲ ἐπέμενον ἐρωτω̂ντες αὐτόνἀνέκυψεν
καὶ εἰ̂πεν αὐτοι̂ς when they kept on questioning him, he
straightened up and spoke to them JHN.8:7. It is also possible to
understand ἐπιμένω in JHN.8:7 as continuing in a place (see
ἐπιμένω[a], 85.55), and therefore one may translate as they
stood there. προσμένω[b]: προσμένει ται̂ς δεήσεσιν καὶ ται̂ς
προσευχαι̂ς νυκτὸς καὶ ἡμέρας she continues in prayer and
supplications day and night 1TI.5:5. It is possible that
προσμένω[b] differs from ἐπιμένω[b] in focusing upon the
continuity or extent of time involved. ἐμμένω[b]: ὅτι αὐτοὶ
οὐκ ἐνέμειναν ἐν τῃ̂ διαθήκω μου because they did not
continue in my covenant HEB.8:9. In HEB.8:9 the implication of to
continue in a covenant is to adhere to the articles or
stipulations of a covenant. Accordingly, one may render HEB.8:9
as because they did not remain faithful to my covenant. In
ACT.14:22 (παρακαλου̂ντες ἐμμένειν τῃ̂ πίστει encourage them
to remain true to the faith), it is also possible to translate
the expression to remain true to the faith as to continue to
believe. παραμένω[b]: γεγονότες ἱερει̂ς διὰ τὸ θανάτῳ
κωλύεσθαι παραμένειν because they were hindered by death from
continuing their work as priests HEB.7:23. <LN>
