# οἰκεῖος, α, ον.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G36090.

* Alternate spellings:



* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Adjective used substantively as a Noun](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/noun_substantive_adj.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 3.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 

[οἶκος]()),

* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 


* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 

 [συγγενής](../G47730/01.md), [ἴδιος](../G23980/01.md) (v. Cremer, 446; Deiss., BS., 123).

## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

relative, member of a family, of the family of, of the same family, kin, kinsman, of the house. Literally, "belonging to a household" (used of things, τὰ οἰκεῖα, meaning "household affairs" or "goods").  Used of persons, meaning "of the same family," "kin," "relative," or "of the family of" (as in Gal. 6:10, Eph. 2:19, and 1 Tim. 5:8).  Substantively (functioning as a noun), meaning "kinsman" 

#### Glosses: 

of the same family, of the house, of the household, relative, kinsman

#### Explanation: 

relative, member of a family, of the family of, of the same family, kin, kinsman, of the house. Literally, "belonging to a household" (used of things, τὰ οἰκεῖα, meaning "household affairs" or "goods").  Used of persons, meaning "of the same family," "kin," "relative," or "of the family of" (as in Gal. 6:10, Eph. 2:19, and 1 Tim. 5:8).  Substantively (functioning as a noun), meaning "kinsman" 

#### Citations: 

of persons, of the same family or kin; as subst., [οἱ οἰ.](), kinsmen: [I Ti 5:8](1Ti 5:8); c. gen. pers., of the family of: metaph., [τ. θεοῦ](), [Eph 2:19](Eph 2:19); [τ. πίστεως]() (Lft., in l.), [Ga 6:10](Gal 6:10).†
