# ὅλος, η, ον.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G36500.

* Alternate spellings:



* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Determiner quantifier](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/determiner_quantifier.html),
[Pronoun indefinite](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pronoun_indefinite.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 108.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX chiefly for [כֹּל](//en-uhl/H3605);

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

as much as, as many as.  Pertaining to a comparative number or quantity of objects or events, as in John 1:12, Mark 10:21, and Rom. 2:12

#### Glosses:

as much as, as many as

#### Explanation:

pertaining to a comparative number or quantity of objects or events (as in John 1:12, Mark 10:21, and Rom. 2:12)

#### Citations: 

how much, how many, how great, how far, how long, as much as, etc. (= Lat. [quantus]()); of number and quantity: m. pl., 
; ὅσοι [δὲ](../G11610/01.md) [ἔλαβον](../G29830/01.md) [αὐτόν](../G08460/01.md),
; "But to as many as received him," (ULT):
[John 1:12](jhn 1:12), 
[Mt 14:36](Mat 14:36), [Mk 3:10](Mrk 3:10), [Ro 2:12](Rom 2:12), al.; n. pl., [Mt 17:12](Mat 17:12), [Mk 10:21](Mrk 10:21), 
; ὅσων [χρῄζει](../G55530/01.md), 
; "as much as he needs," (ULT):
[Lk 11:8](Luk 11:8), al.; [πάτνες]() ([πάντα]()) [ὅ.](), [Mt 13:46](Mat 13:46), [Lk 4:40](Luk 4:40), al.; seq. [οὗτοι]() ([ταῦτα]()), [Ro 8:14](Rom 8:14), [Phl 4:8](Php 4:8); c. indic., [Mk 6:56](Mrk 6:56), [Re 3:19](Rev 3:19); c. subjc. [Mk 3:28](Mrk 3:28), al.; [ὅ. ἄν](), [Mt 18:18](Mat 18:18), [Jo 11:22](Jhn 11:22), al.;


### Sense  1.1: 

#### Definition: 

to the degree that, as much as, inasmuch as, to the same degree.  Pertaining to a measure or degree of correlative extent, relating to quantity, as in Heb. 8:6, Matt. 7:36, and Rom 11:13.  Relating to a comparison of quantity, as much as, as in John 6:11

#### Glosses: 

to the degree that, as much as, inasmuch as, how great 

#### Explanation: 

pertaining to a measure or degree of correlative extent, relating to quantity (as in Heb. 8:6, Matt. 7:36, and Rom 11:13).  Relating to a comparison of quantity, as much as (as in John 6:11)

#### Citations: 

of measure and degree: [Mk 3:8](Mrk 3:8), [Lk 8:39](Luk 8:39), ;
; ὅσα [κακὰ](../G55560/01.md),
; "how much harm," (ULT):
[Ac 9:13](Act 9:13); in compar. sent., [ὅσον]() seq. [μᾶλλον](), [Mk 7:36](Mrk 7:36); [καθ’ ὅσον](), c. compar., [He 3:3](Heb 3:3); seq. [τοσοῦτο](), [He 7:20](Heb 7:20); [οὕτως](), [He 9:27](Heb 9:27); [τοσούτῳ](), c. compar. seq. [ὅσῳ](), c. compar., [He 1:4](Heb 1:4); [ἐφ’ ὅσον](), inasmuch as, [Mt 25:40](Mat 25:40), [45](Mat 25:45), [Ro 11:13](Rom 11:13);


### Sense  1.2: 

#### Definition: 

as long as, how long, how far.  Pertaining to an extent of time or space that is of the same length as (that is, as long as) another extent or unit of time or space, as in Matt. 9:15, Mark 2:19, and 1 Cor. 7:39.  Idiomatically, may emphasize a brief or relatively short period of time, that is, very soon, in a short while, yet how very short a time, how much, as in Heb. 10:37

#### Glosses: 

as long as

#### Explanation: 

pertaining to an extent of time or space that is of the same length as (that is, as long as) another extent or unit of time or space (as in Matt. 9:15, Mark 2:19, and 1 Cor. 7:39).  Idiomatically, may emphasize a brief or relatively short period of time (that is, very soon, in a short while, yet how very short a time, as in Heb. 10:37)

#### Citations: 

of space and time: [Re 21:16](Rev 21:16); [ἐφ’ ὅσον](), as long as, [Mt 9:15](Mat 9:15), 
; [ἐφ'](../G19090/01.md) ὅσον [εἰμὶ](../G15100/01.md) [ἐν](../G17220/01.md) [τούτῳ](../G37780/01.md) [τῷ](../G35880/01.md) [σκηνώματι](../G46380/01.md), 
; "as long as I am in this tent," (ULT): 
[II Pe 1:13](2Pe 1:13); [ἐφ’ ὅ. χρόνον](), [Ro 7:1](Rom 7:1), [I Co 7:39](1Co 7:39), [Ga 4:1](Gal 4:1); [ἔτι μικρὸν ὅσον ὅσον](), yet how very short a time, [He 10:37](Heb 10:37)(LXX).