# ὅσιος, ον.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G37410.

* Alternate spellings:



* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Adjective used substantively as a Noun](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/noun_substantive_adj.html),
[Adjective ascriptive](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/adjective_ascriptive.html),
[Adjective used predicatively as a Noun](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/noun_predicate_adj.html). 

* Instances in the New Testament: 8.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

(so sometimes in cl., but most freq. [-α, -ον]()),

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 

 v.s. [ἅγιος](../G00400/01.md) (cf. also DB, ii, 399b; iv, 352b, and ref. s.v. [-ίως]()).

## Senses: 

### Sense  1.0:

#### Definition: 

holy, godly, devout, divine.  Used of people who are living righteously before God, "pious," "holy," "devout," "dedicated."  In 1 Tim. 2:8, "holy hands" by synecdoche (when a word/ phrase for a part of something substitutes for the whole thing, or when a word/ phrase for the whole thing substitutes for a part of it)

#### Glosses: 

holy, godly, pious

#### Explanation:

used of people who are living righteously before God, "pious," "holy," "devout," "dedicated."  In 1 Tim. 2:8, "holy hands" by synecdoche (when a word/ phrase for a part of something substitutes for the whole thing, or when a word/ phrase for the whole thing substitutes for a part of it)

#### Citations: 

religiously right, righteous, pious, Holy: of men, [Tit 1:8](Tit 1:8), [He 7:26](Heb 7:26); by meton., [ὁ. χεῖρας](), [I Ti 2:8](1Ti 2:8) (cf. [De 32:4](Deu 32:4))


### Sense  1.1:

#### Definition: 

holy, divine (regarding the nature of God and Christ)

#### Glosses: 

holy

#### Explanation:

holy.  Regarding the nature of God and Christ

#### Citations:

of God, [Re 15:4](Rev 15:4) [16:5](Rev 16:5); as subst., [ὁ ὅ.](), of the Messiah, [Ac 2:27](Act 2:27) [13:35](Act 13:35) (LXX)


### Sense  1.2:

#### Definition: 

holy, divine.  Used of things.  Neuter substantive form (functioning as a noun) in plural, "holy decrees," "divine promises," "promises from God" (as in Acts 13:34)

#### Glosses: 

holy, divine

#### Explanation:

holy, divine.  Used of things.  Neuter substantive form (functioning as a noun) in plural, "holy decrees," "divine promises," "promises from God" (as in Acts 13:34)

#### Citations:

[τὰ ὅ. Δανεὶδ τ. πιστά]() (Field, Notes, 121), [Ac 13:34](Act 13:34)(LXX).†