# ὅστις, ἥτις, ὅτι.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G37480.

* Alternate spellings:

,  (also written [ὅ, τι]() and [ὅ τι](); v. LS, s.v.; WH, § 411; Tdf., Pr., 111), in NT scarcely ever except in nom. (M, Pr., 91), the only instance of the oblique cases being found in [[ἕως]() ὅτου]() (v.s. ἕως), relative of indef. reference (related to simple [ὅς]() as Lat. [[qui]()squis]() to qui),

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Pronoun relative](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pronoun_relative.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 144.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 


* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

whoever, anyone who, everyone who, whatever, anything that (of an indefinite person or thing, speaking generally)

#### Glosses:

whoever, anyone who, whatever, anything that 

#### Explanation:

of an indefinite person or thing (speaking generally)

#### Citations: 

of an indef. person or thing: in general statements, 
; ὅστις [σε](../G47710/01.md) [ῥαπίζει](../G44740/01.md) [εἰς](../G15190/01.md) [τὴν](../G35880/01.md) [δεξιὰν](../G11880/01.md) [σιαγόνα](../G46000/01.md), 
; "whoever strikes you on your right cheek," (ULT): 
[Mt 5:39](Mat 5:39), [41](Mat 5:41) [[13:12](Mat 13:12)](Mat 13:12), and freq., [Lk 14:27](Luk 14:27), [Ga 5:4](Gal 5:4), al.; in relative sentences, 
; [πᾶς](../G39560/01.md) [ὁ](../G35880/01.md) [ἀκούων](../G01910/01.md) [μου](../G14730/01.md) [τοὺς](../G35880/01.md) [λόγους](../G30560/01.md) [τούτους](../G37780/01.md), 
; "everyone who hears these words of mine," (ULT): 
[Mt 7:26](Mat 7:26), [Lk 15:7](Luk 15:7), [Phl 3:7](Php 3:7), al.; [πᾶς ὅ.](), c. indic., [Mt 7:24](Mat 7:24)  [10:32](Mat 10:32); [ὅ ἄν]() ([ἐάν]()), c. subjc., [Mt 12:50](Mat 12:50) 13:12, [Jo 14:13](Jhn 14:13), [I Co 16:2](1Co 16:2), [Ga 5:10](Gal 5:10), al.;

### Sense  1.1: 

#### Definition: 

who is such as, one who, which by its very nature, which, he, she, it, they, seeing that (of a definite person or thing, indicating generic or essential quality.  Marking a person or thing that belongs to a certain class or possesses a certain characteristic, as confirming a preceding statement and expressing a reason or characteristic, as in Acts 10:47)

#### Glosses: 

who is such as, one who, which, he, she, it, they, seeing that

#### Explanation: 

of a definite person or thing, indicating generic or essential quality.  Marking a person or thing that belongs to a certain class or possesses a certain characteristic, as confirming a preceding statement and expressing a reason or characteristic (seeing that he, she, it, or they, as in Acts 10:47)

#### Citations: 

of a definite person or thing, indicating quality, "either   generic, which, as other like things, or essential, which by its very nature" (Hort on [I Pe 2:11](1Pe 2:11)), who is such as: [Mt 2:6](Mat 2:6) [7:26](Mat 7:26), 
; ἥτις [ἔσται](../G15100/01.md) [παντὶ](../G39560/01.md) [τῷ](../G35880/01.md) [λαῷ](../G29920/01.md), 
; "which will be to all the people," (ULT): 
[Lk 2:10](Luk 2:10) [7:37](Luk 7:37), [Jo 8:53](Jhn 8:53), [Ac 7:53](Act 7:53), [Ro 6:2](Rom 6:2), [I Co 3:17](1Co 3:17), [Ga 4:24](Gal 4:24), [Eph 1:23](Eph 1:23), al.; where the relative sentence expresses a reason, consequence, etc. (M, Pr., 92), seeing that he (it, they), and he (it, they): 
; αἵτινες [διηκόνουν](../G12470/01.md) [αὐτοῖς](../G08460/01.md), 
; "who were providing for them," (ULT): 
[Lk 8:3](Luk 8:3) [10:42](Luk 10:42), [Ac 10:47](Act 10:47)  [11:28](Act 11:28), [Phl 4:3](Php 4:3), al.;


### Sense  1.2: 

#### Definition: 

who, which (taking the place of ὅς, ἥ, or ὅ, as in Luke 2:4 and Mark 15:7)

#### Glosses:

who, which

#### Explanation:

taking the place of ὅς, ἥ, or ὅ (as in Luke 2:4 and Mark 15:7)

#### Citations: 

as in Ionic and late Greek (Bl., § 50, 1; M, Pr., 91), differing but little from [ὅς](): 
; ἥτις [καλεῖται](../G25640/01.md) [Βηθλέεμ](../G09650/01.md), 
; "which is called Bethlehem," (ULT): 
[Lk 2:4](Luk 2:4) [9:30](Luk 9:30), [Ac 17:10](Act 17:10), [Re 12:13](Rev 12:13).