# ὅταν.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G37520.

* Alternate spellings:

(for [ὅτ’ ἄν]() = [ὅτε ἄν]()),

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Conjunction subordinating](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/conjunction_subordinating.html),
[Adverb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/adverb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 123.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 


* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

when, whenever (relating to a conditional or repeated action.  With present subjunctive, marking a point of time that is simultaneous or overlapping with another point of time, as in Matt. 6:2)

#### Glosses:

when, whenever 

#### Explanation:

with present subjunctive, marking a point of time that is simultaneous or overlapping with another point of time (as in Matt. 6:2)

#### Citations: 

c. subjc. praes.: 
; ὅταν [οὖν](../G37670/01.md) [ποιῇς](../G41600/01.md) [ἐλεημοσύνην](../G16540/01.md), 
; "So when you give alms," (ULT): 
[Mt 6:2](Mat 6:2), [5](Mat 6:5), [Mk 14:7](Mrk 14:7), [Lk 11:36](Luk 11:36), [Jo 7:27](Jhn 7:27), [Ac 23:35](Act 23:35), [I Co 3:4](1Co 3:4), al.; [ἕως τ. ἡμέρας ἐκείνης, ὅ.](), [Mt 26:29](Mat 26:29), 
; [ἕως](../G21930/01.md) [τῆς](../G35880/01.md) [ἡμέρας](../G22500/01.md) [ἐκείνης](../G15650/01.md) ὅταν [αὐτὸ](../G08460/01.md) [πίνω](../G40950/01.md) [καινὸν](../G25370/01.md), 
; "until that day when I drink it new," (ULT): 
[Mk 14:25](Mrk 14:25); seq. [τότε](), [I Th 5:3](1Th 5:3);

### Sense  1.1: 

#### Definition: 

when, whenever (relating to a conditional or repeated action.  With aorist subjunctive, marking an action at a point of time prior to a main clause, as in Matt. 5:11)

#### Glosses:

when, whenever

#### Explanation:

with aorist subjunctive, marking an action at a point of time prior to a main clause (as in Matt. 5:11)

#### Citations: 

c. subjc. aor. (M, Pr., 18[5](Mat 6:5)): [Mt 5:11](Mat 5:11), [Mk 4:15](Mrk 4:15), 
; [καὶ](../G25320/01.md) ὅταν [ἀφορίσωσιν](../G08730/01.md) [ὑμᾶς](../G47710/01.md), 
; "and when they exclude you," (ULT): 
[Lk 6:22](Luk 6:22), [Jo 2:10](Jhn 2:10) [8:28](Jhn 8:28) (Field, Notes, 94), [10:4](Jhn 10:4), al. 

### Sense  1.2: 

#### Definition: 

when, whenever (relating to a conditional or repeated action.  With the indicative, marking repeated action or replacing ὅτε, as in Rev. 8:1)

#### Glosses: 

when, whenever

#### Explanation: 

with the indicative, marking repeated action or replacing ὅτε (as in Rev. 8:1)

#### Citations: 

As in Hom. (LS, s.v.), but not in cl. prose, c. indic., when (M, Pr., 167 f.; Bl., § 6[5](Mat 6:5), 9): c. impf., [Mk 3:11](Mrk 3:11)(cf. [Ge 38:9](Gen 38:9), al.); c. praes., [Mk 11:25](Mrk 11:25); c. fut., 
; [καὶ](../G25320/01.md) ὅταν [δώσουσιν](../G13250/01.md) [τὰ](../G35880/01.md) [ζῷα](../G22260/01.md) [δόξαν](../G13910/01.md), 
; "Whenever the living creatures give glory," (ULT): 
[Re 4:9](Rev 4:9) (Swete, in l.); c. aor., [Mk 11:19](Mrk 11:19), [Re 8:1](Rev 8:1) (Swete, in ll.; M, Pr., 168, 248; Field, Notes, 35).