# ὅτε.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G37530.

* Alternate spellings:

temporal particle (correlat. of [πότε, τότε]()),

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Conjunction subordinating](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/conjunction_subordinating.html),
[Adverb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/adverb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 103.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 


* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

when, while, as long as, seeing that.  Marking a point of time that overlaps with another point of time, "when" (as in Mark 11:1 and Matt. 7:28).  The word may also mark a point of time that coexists with or is as long as another point of time, when, meaning "as long as," "while" (as in Rom. 7:5), or denoting a causal sense of when (for example, seeing that, now that, since, as in 1 Cor. 13:11b)

#### Glosses: 

when

#### Explanation: 

marking a point of time that overlaps with another point of time, "when" (as in Mark 11:1 and Matt. 7:28).  The word may also mark a point of time that coexists with or is as long as another point of time, when, meaning "as long as," "while" (as in Rom. 7:5), or denoting a causal sense of when (for example, seeing that, now that, since, as in 1 Cor. 13:11b)

#### Citations: 

when; c. indic., (so generally in cl., but also c. optat., subjc.; LS, s.v.), most freq. c. aor., [Mt 9:25](Mat 9:25), [Mk 1:32](Mrk 1:32), [Lk 4:25](Luk 4:25), [Jo 1:19](Jhn 1:19), [Ac 1:13](Act 1:13), [Ro 13:11](Rom 13:11), [Ga 1:15](Gal 1:15), [Re 1:17](Rev 1:17), al.; c. impf., [Mk 14:12](Mrk 14:12), [Jo 21:18](Jhn 21:18), [Ro 6:20](Rom 6:20), [I Th 3:4](1Th 3:4), al.; c. pf., since, now that, [I Co 13:11](1Co 13:11) (B, [ἐγένόμην]()); c. praes., [Mk 11:1](Mrk 11:1), [[Jo 9:4](Jhn 9:4)](Jhn 9:4), [He 9:17](Heb 9:17); c. fut. (Hom.; of a def. fut. as opp. to the indef. fut. of [ὅταν]() c. subjc.), [Lk 17:22](Luk 17:22), [Jo 4:21](Jhn 4:21), [23](Jhn 4:23) [5:25](Jhn 5:25) [16:25](Jhn 16:25), [Ro 2:16](Rom 2:16) (T, txt., WH, mg.), [II Ti 4:3](2Ti 4:3) (in all which instances, and c. pres., Jo 9:4, [ὅ.]() follows a subst. of time, and is equiv. to a rel. phrase, [ἐν ᾧ]() or [ᾗ]()).