# ὀφθαλμός, οῦ, ὁ.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G37880.

* Alternate spellings:



* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Noun](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/noun.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 101.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX chiefly for [עַיִן](//en-uhl/H5869);

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition:

eye.  Literally, the organ of sense perception, typically including the eyeballs.  Figuratively, extended to refer to sight or vision, or further to mental or spiritual understanding due perception

#### Glosses: 

eye

#### Explanation: 

literally, the organ of sense perception, typically including the eyeballs.  Figuratively, extended to refer to sight or vision, or further to mental or spiritual understanding due perception.  The word ὀφθαλμός occurs in certain idioms.  Context is important for determining the precise usage

#### Citations: 

the eye (as in cl., chiefly pl.): [Mt 5:38](Mat 5:38), [Mk 9:47](Mrk 9:47), [Lk 6:41](Luk 6:41), [Jo 9:6](Jhn 9:6), al.; [τοὺς ὀ. ἐξορύθσσειν]() (fig.), [Ga 4:15](Gal 4:15); [ἐπᾶραι](), [Lk 6:20](Luk 6:20), [Jo 6:5](Jhn 6:5); [ἀνοῖξα](), [Ac 9:40](Act 9:40); id., of restoring sight, [Mt 20:33](Mat 20:33), [Jo 9:10](Jhn 9:10), al.; [ἐν ῥιπῇ ὀφθαλμοῦ](), [I Co 15:52](1Co 15:52); by anthropom., of God, [He 4:13](Heb 4:13), [I Pe 3:12](1Pe 3:12); pleonastically (cf. Thackeray, Gr., 42 f.), [εἶδον οἱ ὀ. μου](), [Lk 2:30](Luk 2:30) (similarly, [Lk 4:20](Luk 4:20) [10:23](Luk 10:23), [Jo 12:40](Jhn 12:40), [I Co 2:9](1Co 2:9), [I Jo 1:1](1Jn 1:1), [Re 1:7](Rev 1:7)). 

### Sense  1.1: 

#### Definition: 

eye. Generally, the eye.  By metonymy (using a related word to refer to something or someone as a substitute for the original object or person) or in certain idioms with modifiers or modifying phrases

#### Glosses:

eye 

#### Explanation:

generally, the eye, by metonymy (using a related word to refer to something or someone as a substitute for the original object or person) or in certain idioms with modifiers or modifying phrases.  For example, the evil eye (modified by πονηρός) that looks on others with envy or jealously, and thus refers to envy or jealousy 

#### Citations: 

Metaph. (as otherwise in cl.; v. LS, s.v.); of ethical qualities: [ὀ. πονηρός]() (meton., for envy; cf. Heb. [עַיִן רַע](//en-uhl/H5869), [Pr 28:22](Pro 28:22); cf. [Si 14:10](Sir.14.10)  [34:13](Sir.34.13)), 
; [ὁ](../G35880/01.md) [λύχνος](../G30880/01.md) [τοῦ](../G35880/01.md) [σώματός](../G49830/01.md) [ἐστιν](../G15100/01.md) [ὁ](../G35880/01.md) ὀφθαλμός, 
; "The eye is the lamp of the body," (ULT): 
[[Mt 6:22](Mat 6:22)](Mat 6:22), [23](Mat 6:23), [Mk 7:22](Mrk 7:22), [[Lk 11:34](Luk 11:34)](Luk 11:34); [ἁπλοῦς](), Mt 6:22, Lk 11:34; [ἐπιθυμία]() (q.v.) [ὀφθαλμῶν]() (cf. [Ec 4:8](Ecc 4:8), [Si 14:9](Sir.14.9)), [I Jo 2:16](1Jn 2:16); [ὀ. μεστοὶ μοιχαλἰδος](), [II Pe 2:14](2Pe 2:14);

### Sense  1.2: 

#### Definition: 

sight, understanding

#### Glosses:

sight, understanding

#### Explanation:

mental and spiritual understanding due to the capacity for perception (as in Luke 19:42)

#### Citations: 

of mental vision: [Mt 13:15](Mat 13:15), [Mk 8:18](Mrk 8:18),
; [νῦν](../G35680/01.md) [δὲ](../G11610/01.md) [ἐκρύβη](../G29280/01.md) [ἀπὸ](../G05070/01.md) ὀφθαλμῶν [σου](../G47710/01.md), 
; "But now they are hidden from your eyes," (ULT): 
[Lk 19:42](Luk 19:42), [[Jo 12:40](Jhn 12:40)](Jhn 12:40), [Ro 11:8](Rom 11:8), [Ga 3:1](Gal 3:1), [Eph 1:18](Eph 1:18), al.; [ἐν ὀφθαλμοῖς]() seq. gen. (on the absence of the art., v.Bl., § 46, 9n; M, Pr., 81), [Mt 21:42](Mat 21:42), [Mk 12:11](Mrk 12:11).

