# ὄχλος, ου, ὁ.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G37930.

* Alternate spellings:



* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Noun](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/noun.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 174.

* All Scriptures cited: No

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX for [הָמוֹן](//en-uhl/H1995) (chiefly in Da TH), [חַיִל](//en-uhl/H2428), [קָהָל](//en-uhl/H6951), etc.;

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

crowd, multitude, throng.  A casual, relatively large gathering of people (as in Mark 3:32), regardless of the purpose of the gathering or the characteristics of the people who gather.  In some instances, ὄχλος may refer to a gathering of people who share a certain characteristic, status, or purpose.  See the general meaning of ὄχλος as a multitude or large number in Luke 6:17 and Acts 1:15, respectively

#### Glosses: 

crowd, multitude

#### Explanation: 

a casual, relatively large gathering of people (as in Mark 3:32), regardless of the purpose of the gathering or the characteristics of the people who gather.  In some instances, ὄχλος may refer to a gathering of people who share a certain characteristic, status, or purpose.  See the general meaning of ὄχλος as a multitude or large number (Luke 6:17 and Acts 1:15, respectively)

#### Citations: 

a moving crowd or multitude of persons, a throng: [Mt 9:23](Mat 9:23), [Mk 2:4](Mrk 2:4), [Lk 5:1](Luk 5:1), [Jo 5:13](Jhn 5:13), al.; pl., [Mt 5:1](Mat 5:1), [Mk 10:1](Mrk 10:1), [Lk 3:7](Luk 3:7), and freq.; [ὄ. ἱκανός](), 
; ὄχλου [ἱκανοῦ](../G24250/01.md), 
; "a great crowd," (ULT): 
[Mk 10:46](Mrk 10:46), al.; [τοσοῦτος](), [Mt 15:33](Mat 15:33); [οὐ μετ’ ὄχλου](), [Ac 24:18](Act 24:18); [ἄτερ ὄχλου](), [Lk 22:6](Luk 22:6); [πᾶς ὁ ὄ.](), [Mt 13:2](Mat 13:2), [Mk 2:13](Mrk 2:13), al.; [ὄ. πολύς]() ([π. ὄ]()), [Mt 20:29](Mat 20:29), [Mk 5:21](Mrk 5:21), al.;

### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

populace, common people, multitude (the "rabble," contrasted with the authorities, wealthy, or otherwise elite.  Often used with disdain or condescension, as in Mark 12:37.  Developed from the idea of the crowd as a group sharing a certain characteristic or purpose)

#### Glosses: 

populace, common people

#### Explanation: 

populace, common people, rabble, contrasted with the authorities, wealthy, or otherwise the elite.  Often used with disdain or condescension (as in Mark 12:37).  Developed from the idea of the crowd as a group sharing a certain characteristic or purpose

#### Citations: 

(As also cl., opp. to [δῆμος](), q.v., and cf. Tr., Syn., § xcviii), the populace, the common people (cf. [ὁ πολὺς ὄ.](), supr.), 
; [ἐφοβήθη](../G53990/01.md) [τὸν](../G35880/01.md) ὄχλον, 
; "he feared the people," (ULT): 
[Mt 14:5](Mat 14:5)  [21:26](Mat 21:26), [Mk 12:12](Mrk 12:12), [Jo 7:12b](Jhn 7:12); so with contempt (cl.), 
; [ἀλλὰ](../G02350/01.md) [ὁ](../G35880/01.md) ὄχλος [οὗτος](../G37780/01.md), [ὁ](../G35880/01.md) [μὴ](../G33610/01.md) [γινώσκων](../G10970/01.md) [τὸν](../G35880/01.md) [νόμον](../G35510/01.md), [ἐπάρατοί](../G18835/01.md) [εἰσιν](../G15100/01.md), 
; "But this crowd that does not know the law, they are cursed," (ULT): 
[Jo 7:49](Jhn 7:49). In a more general sense, a multitude: c. gen., [ὀνομάτων]() (v.s. [ὀ.]()), [Ac 1:15](Act 1:15); [μαθητῶν](), [Lk 6:17](Luk 6:17), al.