# παρ-ακούω.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, LN, FFM, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G38780.

* Alternate spellings:

,

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 3.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX: [Es 3:3](Ezr 3:3), [8](Ezr 3:8) ([עבר](//en-uhl/H5674), [עשׂה](//en-uhl/H6213), c. neg.) [4:14](Ezr 4:14) [7:4](Ezr 7:4) ([חרשׁ](//en-uhl/H2790) hi.), [Is 65:12](Isa 65:12) ([שׁמע](//en-uhl/H8085), c. neg.), [I Es 4:11](1Esd.4.11), [To 3:4](Tob.3.4)*;

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 

### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

to overhear (that is, to hear what is not intended for one's ears).  Possibly as in Mark 5:36

#### Glosses: 

to overhear

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to overhear. to hear amiss or imperfectly. Later (as in LXX, Polyb., Plut.; also in [π.](), v. MM, xviii), to hear without heeding, take no heed: 
; [ὁ](../G35880/01.md) [δὲ](../G11610/01.md) [Ἰησοῦς](../G24240/01.md) παρακούσας [τὸν](../G35880/01.md) [λόγον](../G30560/01.md) [λαλούμενον](../G29800/01.md) [λέγει](../G30040/01.md) [τῷ](../G35880/01.md) [ἀρχισυναγώγῳ](../G07520/01.md), [μὴ](../G33610/01.md) [φοβοῦ](../G53990/01.md), [μόνον](../G34400/01.md) [πίστευε](../G41000/01.md),
; "But when Jesus overheard the messaged they spoke, he said to the leader of the synagogue, "Do not fear. Only believe," (ULT):
[Mk 5:36](Mrk 5:36); c. gen., [Matt 18:17](mat 18:17);


### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

to refuse to listen to, disobey (that is, to be unwilling to pay no attention to or to take no heed to).  Possibly as in Mark 5:36

#### Glosses: 

to refuse to listen to, to disobey

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to overhear. to hear amiss or imperfectly. Later (as in LXX, Polyb., Plut.; also in [π.](), v. MM, xviii), to hear without heeding, take no heed: [Mk 5:36](Mrk 5:36); c. gen., [Matt 18:17](mat 18:17);

### Sense  2.1: 

#### Definition: 

to ignore (that is, to be unwilling to pay no attention to or to take no heed to).  Possibly as in Mark 5:36

#### Glosses: 

to ignore

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to overhear. to hear amiss or imperfectly. Later (as in LXX, Polyb., Plut.; also in [π.](), v. MM, xviii), to hear without heeding, take no heed: [Mk 5:36](Mrk 5:36); c. gen., [Matt 18:17](mat 18:17).†