# παρα-φέρω.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G39110.

* Alternate spellings:

,

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 4.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX: [I Ki 21:13](1Sa 21:13) ([14](1Sa 21:14)) ([הלל](//en-uhl/H1984) hithpo.), and as v.l.2*;

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

to carry away, take away (literally, to carry away or take away from a place, as of clouds carried by winds in Jude 12)

#### Glosses: 

to carry away, take away

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to bring to, set before, esp. of food (Hdt., al.). to take or carry away: c. acc. rei, seq. [ἀπό](), Mk [14](1Sa 21:14):36, [Lk 22:42](Luk 22:42); pass., seq. [ὑπό](), 
; [νεφέλαι](../G35070/01.md) [ἄνυδροι](../G05040/01.md) [ὑπὸ](../G52590/01.md) [ἀνέμων](../G04170/01.md) παραφερόμεναι,
; "They are clouds without rain, carried along by winds," (ULT):
[Ju 12](Jud 1:12); metaph., pass., c. dat., [He 13:9](Heb 13:9).


### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

to mislead, lead away (figuratively extended from the meaning of "to carry away" or "take away" from the truth)

#### Glosses: 

to mislead, lead away

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to bring to, set before, esp. of food (Hdt., al.). to take or carry away: c. acc. rei, seq. [ἀπό](), Mk [14](1Sa 21:14):36, [Lk 22:42](Luk 22:42); pass., seq. [ὑπό](), [Ju 12](Jud 1:12); metaph., pass., c. dat., 
; [διδαχαῖς](../G13220/01.md) [ποικίλαις](../G41640/01.md) [καὶ](../G25320/01.md) [ξέναις](../G35810/01.md), [μὴ](../G33610/01.md) παραφέρεσθε, 
; "Do not be carried away by various and strange teachings," (ULT):
[He 13:9](Heb 13:9).

### Sense  2.1: 

#### Definition: 

to take away, remove (idiomatically used of removing or taking away an experience, as by Jesus in Mark 14)

#### Glosses: 

to take away, remove 

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to bring to, set before, esp. of food (Hdt., al.). to take or carry away: c. acc. rei, seq. [ἀπό](), 
; παρένεγκε [τὸ](../G35880/01.md) [ποτήριον](../G42210/01.md) [τοῦτο](../G37780/01.md) [ἀπ'](../G05750/01.md) [ἐμοῦ](../G14730/01.md),
; "Remove this cup from me," (ULT):
Mk [14](1Sa 21:14):36, [Lk 22:42](Luk 22:42); pass., seq. [ὑπό](), [Ju 12](Jud 1:12); metaph., pass., c. dat., [He 13:9](Heb 13:9).†