# προέχω.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G42840.

* Alternate spellings:

,

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 1.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in LXX: [Jb 27:6](Job 27:6) A ([חזק](//en-uhl/H2388) hi.)*;

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

to excuse oneself.  Transitively, in the middle voice (when the subject does and experiences the action, doing the action to himself or herself and thus being both subject and object of the action, or when the subject acts to his or her own benefit, to have advantage), meaning "to hold something before oneself (as a protection)," and thus "to excuse oneself" or "to make excuses."  In Romans 3:9, with multiple related nuances: "excuse ourselves,""have an advantage," or "be first" (that is, to "be better" or "superior").

#### Glosses: 

to have an advantage, excuse oneself

#### Explanation: 

to excel, to have an advantage, to excuse oneself.  The word is used intransitively (having no object of the action, without an object of the action, not having a direct object, having no object to receive the action) or transitively (having an object of the action).  Intransitively, to excel, be first.  In passive voice (when the action is happening to the subject of the sentence), to be excelled.  Transitively, in the middle voice (when the subject does and experiences the action, doing the action to himself or herself and thus being both subject and object of the action, or when the subject acts to his or her own benefit, to have advantage), meaning "to hold something before oneself (as a protection)," and thus "to excuse oneself" or "to make excuses."  In Romans 3:9, with multiple related nuances: "excuse ourselves,""have an advantage," or "be first" (that is, to "be better" or "superior").

#### Citations: 

Trans., to hold before; mid., to hold something before oneself (Hdt.), hence, metaph., to excuse oneself: 
; [τί](../G51010/01.md) [οὖν](../G37670/01.md); προεχόμεθα;
; "What then?  Are we excusing ourselves?," (ULT): 
[Ro 3:9](Rom 3:9), R, mg. (but v. Field, Notes, 152 f.; Lft., Notes, 266 f.; ICC and Vau., in l.). 

### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

to excel, to have an advantage.  Intransitively (having no object of the action, without an object of the action, not having a direct object, having no object to receive the action), to excel, be first.   

#### Glosses:

to have an advantage

#### Explanation:

to excel, to have an advantage, to excuse oneself.  The word is used intransitively (having no object of the action, without an object of the action, not having a direct object, having no object to receive the action) or transitively (having an object of the action).  Intransitively, to excel, be first.  In passive voice (when the action is happening to the subject of the sentence), to be excelled.  Transitively, in the middle voice (when the subject does and experiences the action, doing the action to himself or herself and thus being both subject and object of the action, or when the subject acts to his or her own benefit, to have advantage), meaning "to hold something before oneself (as a protection)," and thus "to excuse oneself" or "to make excuses."  In Romans 3:9, possibly exhibiting multiple related nuances: "excuse ourselves,""have an advantage," or "be first" (that is, to "be better" or "superior").

#### Citations: 

Intrans. in running, to have the start, hence, metaph., to excel: pass., 
; [τί](../G51010/01.md) [οὖν](../G37670/01.md); προεχόμεθα;,
; "What then? are we better than they?," (KJV): 
[[Ro 3:9](Rom 3:9)], R, txt. (v. reff. supr.).†