# προ-κόπτω.

<!-- Status: S2=NeedsReview -->
<!-- Lexica used for edits: BDAG, FFM, LN, A-S -->

## Word data

* Strongs: G42980.

* Alternate spellings:

,

* Principle Parts: 


* Part of speech: 

[Verb](http://ugg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/verb.html).

* Instances in the New Testament: 6.

* All Scriptures cited: Yes

## Etymology: 


* LXX/Hebrew glosses: 

in Sm.: [Ps 44 (45):5](Psa 45:5)*;

* Time Period/Ancient Authors: 


* Related words: 

* Antonyms for all senses

* Synonyms for all senses: 


## Senses: 


### Sense  1.0: 

#### Definition: 

to advance, progress (that is, used of extended time, to be far advanced or almost over, moving toward an end point or final stage)

#### Glosses: 

to advance, progress

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations:

to cut forward a way, forward, advance, in cl. trans. with neut. adj., as [οὐδὲν π., τὰ πολλὰ π.]() In late writers (Polyb., al.), wholly intrans., to advance, progress: of time, 
; [ἡ](../G35880/01.md) [νὺξ](../G35710/01.md) προέκοψεν,
; "The night has advanced," (ULT):
[Ro [13](2Ti 3:13):12](Rom 13:12). Metaph., [Lk 2:52](Luk 2:52), [Ga 1:14](Gal 1:14), [II Ti 2:16](2Ti 2:16) [3:9](2Ti 3:9), 13.


### Sense  2.0: 

#### Definition: 

to progress, advance, forward (used of a person, in reference to an activity or improvement)

#### Glosses: 

to progress, advance 

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to cut forward a way, forward, advance, in cl. trans. with neut. adj., as [οὐδὲν π., τὰ πολλὰ π.]() In late writers (Polyb., al.), wholly intrans., to advance, progress: of time, [Ro [13](2Ti 3:13):12](Rom 13:12). Metaph., [Lk 2:52](Luk 2:52), 
; προέκοπτον [ἐν](../G17220/01.md) [τῷ](../G35880/01.md) [Ἰουδαϊσμῷ](../G24540/01.md) [ὑπὲρ](../G52280/01.md) [πολλοὺς](../G41830/01.md) [συνηλικιώτας](../G49150/01.md) [ἐν](../G17220/01.md) [τῷ](../G35880/01.md) [γένει](../G10850/01.md) [μου](../G14730/01.md),
; "And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age, from my own race," (ULT):
[Ga 1:14](Gal 1:14), [II Ti 2:16](2Ti 2:16) [3:9](2Ti 3:9), 13.

### Sense  2.1: 

#### Definition: 

to advance, increase (used of a quantity, to progress or advance)

#### Glosses: 

to advance, increase

#### Explanation: 


#### Citations: 

to cut forward a way, forward, advance, in cl. trans. with neut. adj., as [οὐδὲν π., τὰ πολλὰ π.]() In late writers (Polyb., al.), wholly intrans., to advance, progress: of time, [Ro [13](2Ti 3:13):12](Rom 13:12). Metaph., [Lk 2:52](Luk 2:52), [Ga 1:14](Gal 1:14), 
; [ἐπὶ](../G19090/01.md) [πλεῖον](../G41190/01.md) [γὰρ](../G10630/01.md) προκόψουσιν [ἀσεβείας](../G07630/01.md),
; "for they will advance into greater ungodliness," (ULT):
[II Ti 2:16](2Ti 2:16) [3:9](2Ti 3:9), 13.†